1. As an undergrad, with my science background, I always steered clear from  Engineering and computer science subjects thinking it was not my cup of tea. My family always encouraged me to learn and understand various aspects of software programming and how valuable the knowledge is especially in this tech world. I slowly understood its importance, as I see how the world revolves around technology now. More recently, as I was helping my daughter with her project in scratch program and reinforcing upon her that these types of projects need a lot of patience, motivation and drive. It dawned upon me that I had all the above qualities. My skills at math and science would be a wonderful asset to me along with my ability of reasoning and logic.  I also started to like how there are so many opportunities for kids and adults of this generation to get familiar with computers and software programs. I wish we had the same kind of study environment growing up as kids. I have decided it is never too late to learn something new and hence my pursuit in learning programming. I am familiar with Microsoft office and scratch program.
 
- I am a pharmacist by profession and looking to transition from this field of  practice into computer and software programming. I understand this won't be an easy path and will need developing a lot of new learning skills, patience and time commitment. My short term goal for the next year or two would be to get certified in learning programming languages and have a better understanding of how software industry works instead of being the end user on devices. This would include training from a reputed organization along with real time experiences in the form of a co-op program or internship. In the next five years, I would like to see myself land into a software programming job where I could use my programming skills to develop and implement in different projects. The world of technology is constantly evolving and there are so many software languages and programs that the learning doesn’t end. I would also like to brush up my soft skills which are always as asset in any work place. These would include better communication and people skills, time management and increasing productivity.  Eventually I may want to lead a team of software developers in a multinational company.
 
- It was my first day of work at the pharmacy. The inventory order was placed online around 8 pm each day. I was familiar with the manual ordering system but the pharmacy had just switched to the online version. The technician gave me some brief instructions and left since it was end of her shift and I was left with a manual. I stayed back after the pharmacy closed at 9pm, trying to figure out how to place the order for next day. Finally after an hour of struggle, reading the 200 page manual, and instructions over the phone from my technician, I was successfully able to place the order. I learnt that one cannot assume to know every aspect of work and that it will be a bumpy ride now and then.  Having known about changes being made, I should have come on my own time to read and understand the online ordering system beforehand. One also learns valuable information from co-workers and even junior team members and it is part of working in a team.  Learning doesn’t end after under graduation, post-graduation, or after acquiring a job but is an ongoing process throughout life. 

- After moving to Canada in 2000, I soon started working towards my goal of becoming a licensed pharmacist. I had to pass three exams to prove my credibility. I made it through the first one and second written exams. There was also a timed structured clinical exam where one dealt with different patients to address their concerns. The practical scenarios were my worst nightmare. I was beginning to understand that mere bookish knowledge was not enough and I had to work on increasing my standards of pharmacy practice. About the same time, University of Toronto started a new program called International Pharmacy Graduate Program to help train international pharmacists to bridge the gap. I went ahead with my 5 month training and it was a wonderful experience. It opened my eyes to therapeutics, patient counselling skills, law, ethics, pharmaceutical care, communication skills, and workplace skills. I made new friends, connected with professors and mentors in the Faculty of Pharmacy. I retook the practical exam and passed with flying colors and in a few months was licensed as a pharmacist. I continued to use these skills in every pharmacy that I worked and was soon known for my excellent customer service.


 


